---
hidden: true
---

# Glossary

## General

* **Scans** - The process by which Xray examines artifacts and their dependencies to identify security vulnerabilities, license compliance issues, and operational risks. Scans can be performed on various artifact types, including Docker images and Git repositories.
* **Artifacts** - Binary files or packages produced through the software development process. In Xray, artifacts include components such as libraries, modules, and container images that are stored in repositories. Xray analyzes these artifacts for potential vulnerabilities and compliance issues.
* **Vulnerabilities** - Security flaws or weaknesses in software components that can be exploited by attackers. Xray detects known vulnerabilities in scanned artifacts by comparing them against a continually updated database of security advisories and CVEs (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures).
* **Malicious Packages** - Software components that are identified as containing harmful or malicious content, potentially designed to perform unauthorized actions, steal data, or compromise systems. Xray can flag these packages to prevent their usage in the SDLC.
* **Components** - Individual parts or libraries within an artifact that can include various versions and their dependencies. Xray evaluates these components to determine their security posture and compliance status.
* **Release Bundle** -&#x20;

## SBOM

* **SBOM** - Software Bill of Materials, a comprehensive list of all components and dependencies that make up a software product. SBOM provides transparency and facilitates vulnerability management by detailing what is included in software packages.
* **CycloneDX** - An OWASP SBOM standard designed to support the security and compliance of software. CycloneDX provides a structured way (in Both JSON and XML) to represent the components, licenses, and vulnerabilities in software artifacts, enabling better management of software supply chains.
* **SPDX** - Software Package Data Exchange, a standard format for communicating the licensing and compliance information for software packages. SPDX enables organizations to share licensing data more efficiently, improving transparency in software supply chains.

## SDLC Policy Management

* **Policies** - Rules and Actions to govern the SDLC. Policies in Xray define rules and actions around security vulnerabilities, licensing compliance, and OSS operational standards (Operational Risk) .
* **Policy Violations** - Instances where artifact scan results do not comply with the established policies. Xray identifies these violations and allows teams to take action, such as blocking the download of non-compliant components, failing the ongoing build or alerting responsible stakeholders.
* **Watches** - The Defined Scope for a specific Xray Policy
* **Ignore Rules** - Custom rules defined by users to exclude certain violations. Ignore rules can help teams manage false positives or prioritize issues while still maintaining compliance with regulations and organizational policies.

## Reports

* **Scope** - The Scope of the artifacts included in the report. The scope can be defined based on specific repositories, artifacts, build or Release Bundles.
* **Report Type** - Different formats or categories of reports generated by Xray to summarize findings from scans.  Report types include vulnerabilities reports, legal compliance reports, violations reports and operational risk reports.

## Xray Management

* **Indexed Resources** - the scope of which Artifacts,Build and Release Bundles to scan in Xray.
* **Retention Period** - The configured time period for Xray to retain scan results.
