# OpenID Connect Authentication

The sensitive connection details, such as the access token used by JFrog Frogbot, can be automatically generated by the action instead of storing it as a secret in GitHub. This is made possible by leveraging the OpenID-Connect (OIDC) protocol. This protocol can authenticate the workflow issuer and supply a valid access token. Learn more about this integration in [this](https://jfrog.com/blog/secure-access-development-jfrog-github-oidc) blog post. To utilize the OIDC protocol, follow these steps:

### JFrog Platform configuration <a href="#jfrog-platform-configuration" id="jfrog-platform-configuration"></a>

Step 1: Configure an OIDC Integration&#x20;

This phase is integration between GitHub Actions and the JFrog platform.

1. In the JFrog Platform, navigate to **Administration** > **General Management** > **Manage Integrations**.
2. From the **New Integration** drop-down, select **OpenID Connect** and enter the following information:
   1. Provider Name\
      The 'Provider Name' value should be used as the `oidc-provider-name` input in Workflow Configuration step 2 below.
   2. Provider Type
   3. Description (optional)
   4. Provider URL
   5. Audience (optional)\
      Does NOT represent the 'aud' claim that can be added to identity-mapping configured in the 'Claims JSON' (shown below). Only claims that are included in the 'Claims Json' created during step 2 will be validated.
   6. Token Issuer

Step 2: Configure an Identity Mapping

This phase is integration between a particular GitHub repository and the JFrog platform.

An identity mapping is a configuration object utilized by the JFrog Platform to associate incoming OIDC claims with particular selected fields. These fields include `repository`, `actor`, `workflow`, and others.&#x20;

1. Select **Identity Mappings** >  **Add Identity Mapping** and enter the following information:
   1. Name
   2. Priority (enter '1')
   3. Description (optional)
   4. Claims JSON\
      You have the flexibility to define any valid list of claims required for request authentication. You can check a list of the possible claims [here](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/about-security-hardening-with-openid-connect#understanding-the-oidc-token). \
      Example:

<pre><code><strong>{
</strong>    "repository": "repository-owner/my-repository"
}
</code></pre>

### Workflow configuration <a href="#workflow-configuration" id="workflow-configuration"></a>

Step 1: Set the Required Permissions

During the protocol's execution, you must obtain a JSON Web Token (JWT) from GitHub's OIDC provider. To request this token, ensure that the workflow is configured with the required permission.

1. Configure the specified permission in the workflow file:

```
permissions:
    id-token: write
```

Step 2: Pass the `oidc-provider-name` Input to the Action

The `oidc-provider-name` parameter specifies the OIDC configuration whose identity mapping should match the generated JWT claims. This value must correspond to the [Provider Name](openid-connect-authentication.md#jfrog-platform-configuration) set in the OIDC configuration within the JFrog Platform.

Step 3: Pass the `oidc-audience` Input to the Action (Optional)

The `oidc-audience` input defines the intended recipients of an ID token (JWT), ensuring access is restricted to authorized recipients for the JFrog Platform. By default, it contains the URL of the GitHub repository owner. It enforces a condition, allowing only workflows within the designated repository/organization to request an access token. Read more about it [here](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/about-security-hardening-with-openid-connect#customizing-the-audience-value).

### Example of OpenID Connect Usage <a href="#example-for-openid-connect-usage" id="example-for-openid-connect-usage"></a>

```
- uses: jfrog/frogbot@v2
  env:
      JF_URL: ${{ vars.JF_URL }}
      JF_GIT_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
  with:
      oidc-provider-name: frogbot-integration
```

### **Troubleshooting** <a href="#troubleshooting" id="troubleshooting"></a>

#### Scan failures due to token expiration <a href="#scan-failures-due-to-token-expiration" id="scan-failures-due-to-token-expiration"></a>

When using OIDC integration, you might encounter failures in Xray scans or JFrog Advanced Security scans due to token expiration. If this occurs, try extending the 'Token Expiration Time' in the 'Identity Mapping Configuration' phase to ensure the token remains valid until all scanners are triggered, which may vary depending on the project's size.
